>> Speaker 1: All right,
let's keep it moving.
Let's work on getting the issues so
we can see them on the page.
This one, queries are usually
simpler than mutations.
So for the issues a couple things, we
need to make an IssuesFilter type input.
This is gonna allow us to filter
issues by status codes and
then we need to make a query for issues.
And then, obviously we need
to make the resolvers, but
we need to make a couple here.
We need to make one that
gets all the issues, and
it's gonna be quite complicated,
because it can take in an array of issue
statuses on which it can filter on.
So the database query gets kind of nuts.
And then we need to make
a issues query on the user type.
So that way we can get the issues for a
user the same way we can get the user for
an issue.
So it's a one to many relationship.
A user can have many issues, but
one issue can have one user.
So we have to be able to resolve issues.
We don't have to, but we are.
We're gonna allow you to resolve
the issues on a user because if you
look at our database,
it supports that, right?
If we go to our database here,
but I'm in the wrong, okay,
sorry, that was the wrong file.
There we go.
If we look at our database here,
you can see A user has many issues.
So we want to be able to
support that with GraphQL.
So we're going to fix our schema for that.
So let's go to our schema.
And the first thing I'm gonna
do is go to our user and
I'm gonna add a issues field here of type,
issue non no.
And then we make a new type here,
call it issue.
It's gonna have an ID created or
I'm sorry,
we're gonna have to issue, I'm tripping.
We need to add the query for issue.
>> Speaker 1: And here is where
it's going to take in an input.
That input is gonna be
the IssueFilterInput.
So let's do that, IssuesFilterInput.
Input is IssuesFilterInput like this.
And it's gonna take statuses,
which is an array of IssueStatus,
like that.
And it can be null.
But if you give the array,
then you must put something in it.
You can't just send up an empty array.
So technically it should be that.
You cannot give us an array,
but if you do give us an array,
you better have something in it.
Don't send us an empty array,
which makes sense.
Why would you do that?
Or maybe you wrote your code in a way that
it just, I don't know, it maps over, but
it's up to you.
I'm gonna do that.
I'll probably do something
different in the docs we'll see.
And then we can do for that input type,
it'll just be IssueFilterInput.
I won't make it required, because maybe
you don't want to filter on statuses.
You just want to get all the issues.
So it's not gonna be required and
then it's gonna return issue or
it's gonna return issues.
And I guess I'll call this issues,
plural, and I'll make the list required.
So this is giving us
a query that if you hit
it will get all the issues for
a given user.
Will always return an array,
even if there's nothing in it,
has an optional input object of
filtering on statuses if given.
And we just need to go write
those resolvers for that.
And we already added the issue
array here for the user.
So, okay, I wanna look at that.
Let's go do that.
So for the resolvers,
let's go to our query.
We'll make a new one for issues like this,
we're going to get the parent
that does not exist.
We do have an optional input here,
so we'll take that and
we will use the context.
We don't need the info.
We'll do the same thing
we did with all of them.
Because the resolvers are responsible for
enforcing authentication,
so we'll enforce it here.
Now on this line,
we are sure user is here And
the first thing we wanna do is we need to
build up a filter that we can pass our
ORM if you passed in statuses, so
that's what we're going to do.
I might have to just walk through this one
because it's very specific to the database
or the ORM that I'm using.
But basically,
there's one filter I have to do.
And there's an optional second filter,
right?
The one filter I have to do is, only
show me the issues for the current user.
So I have to do that filter.
Otherwise, you'll just get
everybody's issues in the database.
So this is a multi-tenant database,
so scope it by the user's ID.
So that's the first filter, so
I make an array of that filter.
You can see I'm saying,
I want to make sure
that the issues user ID equals the current
user's ID, so I'm scoping that.
And then if you pass in the statuses and
the statuses have length,
I guess I don't have to do
this check right here if I did
the exclamation on
the inside of the array.
So that would get rid of this check.
If that's the case, go ahead and
push in a new equal filter for
each one of those statuses into the array.
So if you pass in three statuses,
so we gonna pass in three equals
inside that array of issues.status
equaling that status.
And that's basically
what we're doing here.
And then we can pass that into
the end helper for our ORM,
which if given an array
of equality checks,
all of them have to pass in order for
you to get the result that you want.
And that's what and means.
So that's just saying every
one of these filters if given,
have to be true in order for
an issue to be returned.
And then this order thing by is just,
you don't even really need this.
But it was driving me crazy that
the things were not sorted, so I added it.
So let's do that.
So we'll go in here.
We'll say, andFilters are gonna be
an array with the equal of issues.userId
equals the context.user.id.
Then I can say, if input and
input.statuses.
I don't have to check for length on this
one, because on this version that I wrote,
again, I said, if you pass that input,
it better have a status in it, so
this code won't even run
unless that is true.
So I don't have to check for
the length here like I did in the docs.
And then I can say, okay,
cool, if that's true,
basically what I wanna do is
I want to map over them and
return a equal statement that
I can then push in an array.
Could have just used reduce here,
but it's all good.
StatusFilters = Input.statuses.map,
grab the status return an equal
statement of issues.status
equals that status like this.
This thing is freaking out because
I already declared something
called status somewhere, probably.
I just didn't spell it right.
There we go, cool.
Okay, got our status filters, And
then we just push them into our array.
But we have to do an or here because
it's like if I put another and here,
what would happen is it's only one
issues that have all these statuses,
that wouldn't make sense.
You can only have one status.
So it's like I want all the issues
that belong to this user and
has one of these statuses.
That's what the or is, right?
So I'm pushing the or in here.
So I'm gonna say
andFilters.push using the or
keyword that's imported at
the top...statusFilters.
>> Speaker 1: So we got that.
Now we can actually make the query,
which is a little funky.
Also because the orderBy
is a little weird.
I'm probably just gonna copy that.
Actually I'm just gonna copy that right
now because I'm not writing that again.
That's just so gross.
But it's pretty simple once you
get past the orderBy thing,
which is just going to be get the data,
that's going to equals
db.query.issues.findMany,
where we're gonna use the and query,
spread over the and filters like that.
And then we can say orderBy, which
I'm just going to paste in like that.
What the orderBy thing is doing here,
all this is doing is,
it's sorting by the enums.
This guarantees that we always get back
issues with backlogs at the top in
progress and then done.
There's also another one to do.
You can add that here too.
I just didn't feel like doing it.
So you'll always get those
three back in this order.
Without this, you'll just get
them back in any random order and
then an additional sort of createdAt.
So first sort by status, and
then within those statuses sort
by descending the createdAt.
The SQL helper allows me to write raw SQL.
I couldn't figure out a way
to do this with the ORM, so
I just wrote it in raw SQL.
Okay, so we got that.
And lastly, let's just return data.
That should be a list of things.
If I hover over it, there we go.
It's a list of issues.
Okay, so we got that.
I guess I need to add async on this so
await actually works.
There we go.
And what we need to do now is teach
GraphQL how to get issues from a user.
So I can go down here at
top level of my resolver.
Say for the user type it has issues,
and I want to resolve this.
Because it's a field on a object type,
I know that this parent
is going to be a user.
That's the quickest way you can figure
out if If I'm making a resolver
on an object type, this first argument
is gonna be that object type, always.
This is always gonna be a user
because it's a field on user.
So its parent is a user.
So I have the user here.
I don't care for that argument.
I do care about the context, so
I can check for authentication,
which I'm gonna do right here.
And I guess technically you
don't have to do this, right?
What query do we have?
I don't think there's a query
that you can run that will
give you a user in which
you're not logged in already.
So you technically don't have to check for
authentication in the sub resolvers
because their parents
are already doing it.
Right, so if you follow the graph,
what query can I get a user from?
I can get it from a signin.
I can get it from a createUser.
Well, at that point, you're signed in, and
you're created so you are logged in and
you should be able to get the issues.
Now I don't have to check this.
So technically you don't have
to check in these nested ones.
It's kind of redundant,
but it's not gonna hurt.
This one is just return
database.query.issues.findMany.
Where: equals (issues.userId
equals user.id)
And this should give us our issues.
Okay, any questions on that, yes.
How do you organize your resolvers
when you have hundreds of tables?
Yeah, that's a good question.
I mean, you can break your resolvers
up into many different files.
You don't have to put them all,
I mean, it's just an object.
So there's nothing wrong with taking each
one of these types and giving them their
own file, or taking each one of these
types and giving them their own folder.
And then make a file for
each single resolver and
then you just merge them all in, it's an
object, so you can merge however you want.
There really is no wrong way.
I'd say most people just start off by
putting everything in one file, and
then what they end up doing is,
they start going into their schema and
separating this, taking this outta one
file and putting it into many files.
And at that point you can start
to co-locate things together by
either functionality or entity.
So you might put all your queries
together, all your mutations together, or
you might group things by all my
user stuff, all my issue stuff.
So there really is no wrong answer, but
I would say just keep everything in
one file until it becomes annoying.
And then from there, do what makes sense
as long as you merge them in at the end of
the day, GraphQL doesn't know or
doesn't care.
So there are also tools that will
take something like this and
spit out a GraphQL schema, so
it can kind of get you there half the way.
So you could do that as well.
That way you're really not even writing
GraphQL schemas minus the things you wanna
keep, like get right rid of the password
field on that schema, things like that.
So it works pretty well.
If you use Prisma, I know for
sure Prisma has the ability to generate to
GraphQL because it's based off GraphQL.
So actually,
we're just gonna go straight to the app.
I should just be able to
refresh if I didn't kill it.
For this sign in user, I should
see two issues I think, let's see.
Just one, maybe not two.
Okay, yeah, so here's my one issue
that I created for the signed in user.
That's right, who I'm signing with on
this app is not who I'm signing with
on the Apollo thing, two different people.
Okay, so that works, let's try it.
Let's make another one.
So I can say another issue.
Hello there, create the issue.
Boom, shows up another issue, right?
You can go test this
in Apollo if you want.
So let's go here.
Already created, let me create another
one here for this user, yellow.
Do more fun things.
So I can create that and then now I
can go back, get rid of all of this,
get rid of this, get rid of that.
Do a query for the issues,
get the content,
the name, the ID, status, and query that.
And there we go.
We got all of those.
And then I should be able
to get the user from this.
So let's see if I get the user from this.
That seems to work.
And then I want to make sure I can get the
issues from the user, so I'll do that, and
I'll say, give me the content.
And that seems to work as well.
So pretty effective.
So this is what I mean by letting
the resolvers do the work.
There's no way we would have been able to
anticipate like, first I gotta get this,
and then I gotta write
some code to get this.
You just don't know,
you just let the resolvers do the work.
The resolvers get called
based on the query.
These are the directions in
which your resolvers run.
So they don't know that they're already
being called and things like that.
So you might be asking yourself,
if I'm just getting the same data here,
as I'm getting here,
is there a way to cache this?
Yes, there's a way to do that.
Per request,
there's something called a data loader.
And this is actually the recommended
thing that you're supposed to use is
you use something called a data loader.
The best way I can describe a data
loader is it is a per-request cache.
So that way, when you do things like
I just did, where I got the issues,
I got the user that I got the issues for
the user,
which technically are the same issues,
two levels above.
I could have just cashed that per request
and it would have ran my code again,
it almost got the issues
that previously got.
So that's what a data loader is.
You can make them from scratch.
There's plugins that kind of do them for
you depending on ORM you have,
there's Mongo, data loaders,
things like that.
But it's kind of beyond the scope of this.
But yeah, you would use something
like this, a per request cache.
I mean, technically you would use
something like this for a lot of server
side things like in Next.js App Directory
for server components.
If you wanted a cache there,
you have to make sure it's per request.
Otherwise all your users share
the same server cache and
you would leak data to someone else.
So you wanna instantiate a new
cache every time you do a request.
That's what data loader is.
So it's a key value, cache for things.
So you would use that.
That way you don't have this problem, or
at least you won't reusing
all the resources.
This database resource,
you'd still be CPU Intensive if
someone made a really big one.